# HCP-Hippocampus-Reward-Diffusion-Segmentation
Segmentation of the hippocampus along the long-axis based on its structural connectivity to reward regions  

The "HPC_Reward_Conn_Atlases_MNI" folder contains group-averaged atlases of the hippocampus based on its connectivity to the vmPFC, VTA, and Limbic (ventral) striatum, for each hemisphere. Two different segemntation methods were employed. Files ending in "_Seg" used a hard segmentation procedure where eahc voxel was assigned to the region that had the strongest conenctivity (most streamlines) within a singe subject, precluding overlapping voxels within a subject. Files ending in "_50" used a within-subject threshold (50 streamlines).

see [LinkToPreprint] for more information

#Abstract

Recent work has identified a critical role for the hippocampus in reward-sensitive behaviors, including motivated memory, reinforcement learning, and decision-making. Animal histology and human functional neuroimaging have shown that brain regions involved in reward processing and motivation are more interconnected with the ventral/anterior hippocampus. However, direct evidence examining gradients of structural connectivity amongst reward regions and the hippocampus in humans is lacking, precluding the ability to assay how these circuits contribute to normative adaptive behavior and maladaptive behaviors in psychiatric illness. The present study used diffusion MRI and probabilistic tractography to quantify the structural connectivity of the hippocampus with key reward processing regions in vivo. Using a large sample of subjects (N=628) from the human connectome dMRI data release, we found a diverse array of connectivity profiles with the hippocampus depending on which node of the reward circuit we were probing. While the dopaminergic midbrain (VTA) showed stronger connectivity with the anterior versus posterior hippocampus, the vmPFC showed stronger connectivity with the posterior hippocampus. In contrast, the nucleus accumbens (NAc) showed a more homogeneous connectivity profile along the hippocampal long-axis. We generated a probabilistic atlas of the hippocampal structural connectivity with reward-related networks to support future research on this circuit. These findings describe nuanced structural connectivity that sets the foundation to better understand how the hippocampus influences reward-guided behavior in humans.

